index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

## Administrative information

Administrative course information is available [here](https://uit.no/utdanning/emner/emne/481430/inf-2201)

The github repository for this course is: [github.com/uit-inf-2201-s17/](https://github.com/uit-inf-2201-s17/)

We use the [inf-2201-s17@list.uit.no](https://list.uit.no/sympa/info/inf-2201-s17) mailing list to send important information.

We also have a Slack team [uit-inf-2201-s17](https://uit-inf-2201-s17.slack.com).

We have the following rooms and hours:

* Mondays, 10:15-12:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.016
* Mondays, 10:15-12:00, REALF A016
* Tuesdays, 10:15-12:00, Lille Aud (REALF B203)
* Wednesdays, 14:15-16:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.023AUD
* Thursdays, 12:15-14:00, Lille Aud (REALF B203)
* Fridays, 12:15-14:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.017
* Fridays, 12:15-14:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.018

Refer to the lecture and mandatory assignment plan, and e-mails, for which room is used when.

## Staff

* Lars Ailo Bongo (larsab@cs.uit.no, A257)
* Tore Brox-Larsen (tore@cs.uit.no, A254)
* Marius Wiik (marius.wiik@uit.no, A040)
* Nikolai Magnussen (nikolai.a.magnussen@uit.no, A039)

## Lecture plan (will be updated)

| Lecture | Date | Subject	    | Readings  | Lecturer  |
|---------|------|--------------|-----------|-----------|
| L1  | 12.01.17 | [Introduction](lectures/01-introduction.pptx) and [Operating Systems](lectures/01-OS.pptx) | MOS 1.1 - 1.3  | Lars Ailo |
| L2  | 17.01.17 | [IA32 OS Support](lectures/02 - OS Support.pdf); and [Protection](lectures/02 - Protection.pdf) | MOS 1.4 - 1.5 | Lars Ailo |
| L3  | 19.01.17 | [OS Structure](lectures/03 - OS Structure.pdf) | MOS 1.6 - 1.7; 12 | Lars Ailo |
| L4  | 24.01.17 | Processes, Non-Preemtive Scheduling | MOS 2.1, 2.2 | Lars Ailo |
| L5  | 26.01.17 | Threads, Critical Sections | MOS 2.4 - 2.5 | Lars Ailo |
| L6  | 31.01.17 | Mutual Exclusion | MOS 2.2 - 2.3.6 | TBD |
| L7  | 02.02.17 | Semaphores | MOS 2.5 - ?? | TBD |
| L8  | 07.02.17 | Monitors   | MOS 2.3.4 - 2.3.5 | TBD |
| L9  | 09.02.17 | Semaphores and Monitors | MOS 2.3.5 - 2.3.7 | TBD |
| L10 | 14.02.17 | Thread Packages | MOS 2.2 | Lars Ailo |
| L11 | 16.02.17 | CPU Scheduling | MOS 2.4 | TBD |
| L12 | 21.02.17 | Deadlocks | MOS 6 | TBD |
| L13 | 23.02.17 | Message passing | MOS 2.3.8 | TBD |
| L14 | 28.02.17 | I/O Devices and Drivers | MOS 5 | TBD |
| L15 | 02.03.17 | Adress Translation, Paging | MOS 3.1 - 3.3, 3.7| TBD |
| L16 | 07.03.17 | Memory Management | MOS 3.4 | TBD |
| L17 | 09.03.17 | Paging, VM Design | MOS 3.5 - 3.9 | TBD |
| L18 | 14.03.17 | Storage | MOS 5.4 | TBD |
| L19 | 16.03.17 | File Systems I | MOS 4.1 - 4.6 | TBD |
| L20 | 21.03.17 | File Systems II | MOS 4.1 - 4.6 | TBD |
| L21 | 23.03.17 | Virtual Machines | MOS 7 | |
| L22 | 28.03.17 | Hot topic I | TBA | Lars Ailo |
| L23 | 30.03.17 | Hot topic II | TBA | Lars Ailo |
| -   | 04.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 06.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 20.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 25.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 27.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 02.05.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 04.05.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 09.05.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 11.05.17 | - | - | - |

## Readings

Mandatory:

1. Andrew S. Tanenbaum, Modern Operating Systems, 4th Ed., Pearson Educational Limited, 2015. ISBN 10: 1-292-06142-1. Chapters: 1-7, 12.

Suggested additional readings:

1. [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/). Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau.


## Mandatory assignments

Note! The [UiT rules regarding cheating on exams](https://uit.no/om/enhet/artikkel?p_document_id=473719&p_dimension_id=88138&men=28714) applies for all projects.

| Project |	Precepts | Desgin review | Due | Subject|
|---------|----------|----------|----------|---------|
| P1 	  | 18.01.17 | 23.01.17 | 01.02.17 | Boot-up mechanism |
| P2      | 01.02.17 | 06.02.17 | 22.02.17 | Assignment 2 |
| P3      | 22.02.17 | 27.02.17 | 08.03.17 | Assignemnt 3 |
| P4      | 08.03.17 | 13.03.17 | 29.03.17 | Assignment 4 |
| Easter  | 13.04.17 | -        | 17.04.17 | God tur |
| P5      | 29.03.17 | 03.04.17 | 26.04.17 | Assignment 5 |
| P6      | 26.04.17 | 05.05.17 | 24.05.17 | Assignment 6 |

Commit message:

Kildebruk, plagiering og fusk på eksamen

index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Home
---

## Administrative information

Administrative course information is available [here](https://uit.no/utdanning/emner/emne/481430/inf-2201)

The github repository for this course is: [github.com/uit-inf-2201-s17/](https://github.com/uit-inf-2201-s17/)

We use the [inf-2201-s17@list.uit.no](https://list.uit.no/sympa/info/inf-2201-s17) mailing list to send important information.

We also have a Slack team [uit-inf-2201-s17](https://uit-inf-2201-s17.slack.com).

We have the following rooms and hours:

* Mondays, 10:15-12:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.016
* Mondays, 10:15-12:00, REALF A016
* Tuesdays, 10:15-12:00, Lille Aud (REALF B203)
* Wednesdays, 14:15-16:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.023AUD
* Thursdays, 12:15-14:00, Lille Aud (REALF B203)
* Fridays, 12:15-14:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.017
* Fridays, 12:15-14:00, TEKNOBYGGET 1.018

Refer to the lecture and mandatory assignment plan, and e-mails, for which room is used when.

## Staff

* Lars Ailo Bongo (larsab@cs.uit.no, A257)
* Tore Brox-Larsen (tore@cs.uit.no, A254)
* Marius Wiik (marius.wiik@uit.no, A040)
* Nikolai Magnussen (nikolai.a.magnussen@uit.no, A039)

## Lecture plan (will be updated)

| Lecture | Date | Subject	    | Readings  | Lecturer  |
|---------|------|--------------|-----------|-----------|
| L1  | 12.01.17 | [Introduction](lectures/01-introduction.pptx) and [Operating Systems](lectures/01-OS.pptx) | MOS 1.1 - 1.3  | Lars Ailo |
| L2  | 17.01.17 | [IA32 OS Support](lectures/02 - OS Support.pdf); and [Protection](lectures/02 - Protection.pdf) | MOS 1.4 - 1.5 | Lars Ailo |
| L3  | 19.01.17 | [OS Structure](lectures/03 - OS Structure.pdf) | MOS 1.6 - 1.7; 12 | Lars Ailo |
| L4  | 24.01.17 | Processes, Non-Preemtive Scheduling | MOS 2.1, 2.2 | Lars Ailo |
| L5  | 26.01.17 | Threads, Critical Sections | MOS 2.4 - 2.5 | Lars Ailo |
| L6  | 31.01.17 | Mutual Exclusion | MOS 2.2 - 2.3.6 | TBD |
| L7  | 02.02.17 | Semaphores | MOS 2.5 - ?? | TBD |
| L8  | 07.02.17 | Monitors   | MOS 2.3.4 - 2.3.5 | TBD |
| L9  | 09.02.17 | Semaphores and Monitors | MOS 2.3.5 - 2.3.7 | TBD |
| L10 | 14.02.17 | Thread Packages | MOS 2.2 | Lars Ailo |
| L11 | 16.02.17 | CPU Scheduling | MOS 2.4 | TBD |
| L12 | 21.02.17 | Deadlocks | MOS 6 | TBD |
| L13 | 23.02.17 | Message passing | MOS 2.3.8 | TBD |
| L14 | 28.02.17 | I/O Devices and Drivers | MOS 5 | TBD |
| L15 | 02.03.17 | Adress Translation, Paging | MOS 3.1 - 3.3, 3.7| TBD |
| L16 | 07.03.17 | Memory Management | MOS 3.4 | TBD |
| L17 | 09.03.17 | Paging, VM Design | MOS 3.5 - 3.9 | TBD |
| L18 | 14.03.17 | Storage | MOS 5.4 | TBD |
| L19 | 16.03.17 | File Systems I | MOS 4.1 - 4.6 | TBD |
| L20 | 21.03.17 | File Systems II | MOS 4.1 - 4.6 | TBD |
| L21 | 23.03.17 | Virtual Machines | MOS 7 | |
| L22 | 28.03.17 | Hot topic I | TBA | Lars Ailo |
| L23 | 30.03.17 | Hot topic II | TBA | Lars Ailo |
| -   | 04.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 06.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 20.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 25.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 27.04.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 02.05.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 04.05.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 09.05.17 | - | - | - |
| -   | 11.05.17 | - | - | - |

## Readings

Mandatory:

1. Andrew S. Tanenbaum, Modern Operating Systems, 4th Ed., Pearson Educational Limited, 2015. ISBN 10: 1-292-06142-1. Chapters: 1-7, 12.

Suggested additional readings:

1. [Operating Systems: Three Easy Pieces](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~remzi/OSTEP/). Remzi H. Arpaci-Dusseau and Andrea C. Arpaci-Dusseau.


## Mandatory assignments

Note! The UiT rules regarding cheating on exams ["Kildebruk, plagiering og fusk på eksamen"](https://uit.no/om/enhet/artikkel?p_document_id=473719&p_dimension_id=88138&men=28714) (in Norwegian only) applies for all projects.

| Project |	Precepts | Desgin review | Due | Subject|
|---------|----------|----------|----------|---------|
| P1 	  | 18.01.17 | 23.01.17 | 01.02.17 | Boot-up mechanism |
| P2      | 01.02.17 | 06.02.17 | 22.02.17 | Assignment 2 |
| P3      | 22.02.17 | 27.02.17 | 08.03.17 | Assignemnt 3 |
| P4      | 08.03.17 | 13.03.17 | 29.03.17 | Assignment 4 |
| Easter  | 13.04.17 | -        | 17.04.17 | God tur |
| P5      | 29.03.17 | 03.04.17 | 26.04.17 | Assignment 5 |
| P6      | 26.04.17 | 05.05.17 | 24.05.17 | Assignment 6 |
